---
layout: post
title:  scotus opinion
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2016
---
Cite as: 600 U. S. \_\_\_ (2016)

**Opinion of the Court**

**SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES**

No. 14\--8570

ZUBIK V. BURWELL
<!--more-->
Argued: March 23rd, 2016; Decided: April 3rd, 2016

ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT

\[April 4th, 2016\]

JUSTICE RANKINE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner David A. Zubik oversees the Roman Catholic Diocese of
Pittsburgh, a religiously affiliated nonprofit institution whose female
employees, under the Affordable Health Care Act passed in 2010, are
guaranteed access to contraceptives and other forms of preventative care
by the group plan if they are capable of reproduction. The act, as
enforced by the Department of Health and Human Services, allows an
exception for religiously affiliated nonprofit organizations to refuse
to provide this contraceptive aid on the grounds of their beliefs,
requiring them to notify their insurance providers or the federal
government in order to have the third party provide this care
separately. The petitioner argues that this process constitutes a
violation of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), which holds
that the government may not "substantially burden a person's exercise of
religion even if the burden results from a rule of general
applicability." The diocese's role in facilitating this process of
exemption, according to the petitioner, would involve them in providing
preventative care for their employees and thus violate their religious
beliefs against their will. Thus, the petitioner, on behalf of various
other petitioners claiming similar arguments in class-action suit, filed
a civil claim against the defendant Sylvia Burwell, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services on Section C of the Religious Freedom
Restoration Act. The defendant claims that this exemption provided to
religiously affiliated nonprofit organizations under the HHS regulations
of the Affordable Healthcare Act does not violate RFRA in that this
exemption has been proved to be "the least restrictive means of
furthering \[a\] compelling governmental interest" under Section B of
RFRA, with that being the protection of "women's interest in full and
equal health coverage." In full, the argument of the petitioners,
according to the defendant, has no merit in that the petitioner's
religious objections to the facilitation of the exemption process
conflicts with this aforementioned interest of the government when it is
the least restrictive means of advancing such.

The case, involving the federal government as a litigant, was first
brought to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania and was trialed by the Honorable Joy Flowers Conti and
Honorable Arthur J. Schwab. The district court, issuing a preliminary
injunction and later a permanent injunction, ruled in favor of the
petitioner on November 21st, 2013, arguing that "\[the appellees\] ...
succeed on the merits of proving that their right to freely exercise
their religion has been substantially burdened by the 'accommodation'
which requir\[ing\] \[one\] to sign a form which thereby
facilitates/initiates the provision of contraceptive products, services,
and counseling" contrary to their religious beliefs. The defendant then
appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
District, with arguments being brought forth before the Court on
November 19th, 2014. The appellate court formally reversed the decision
made by the district court, providing in its opinion issued February
11th, 2015 that the act of filing their religious objections with the
insurer or the federal government cannot make them complicit in the act
of providing such preventative care services by the third party and
would not impose a legitimately substantial burden on their religious
beliefs. The Court explained the basis for this notion in stating that
"free exercise jurisprudence instructs \[them\] to examine the act the
appellees must perform---not the effect of that act---to see if it
burdens substantially the appellees' religious exercise." Thus, the
court "conclude\[d\] that the appellees have not shown a likelihood of
success on the merits of their RFRA claim, based on \[this\]
determination, \[and that \] the question of whether the accommodation
is the least restrictive means of furthering a compelling governmental
interest" would therefore not be a question relevant to the case. The
petitioner then filed an appeal to the Court on April 15th, 2015 for
review of the appellate court's decision. On November 6th, 2015, the
Court filed a writ of certiorari ordering the review of the decision
made in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third District, specifically
concerning the question brought by the petitioner regarding whether the
preventive care accommodation provided by ACA and the Department of
Health and Human Services for nonprofit organizations is the least
restrictive means of advancing the government's interests while
preserving the religious freedom of said organizations. Oral argument by
both litigants was provided on the 23rd of March, conference on the 1st
of April, with the final decision being reached in a unanimous vote on
the 3rd of April.

The question provided concerns primarily concerns the free exercise
clause of the First Amendment of the Constitution in that the petitioner
charges that the discussed accommodation under ACA violates his freedom
to exercise his religious beliefs. Specifically, the petitioner argues
that applying for this accommodation by filing the appropriate forms
with the insurer or federal government makes them complicit in the
process of providing preventive healthcare to the employees of the
diocese, which in turn forces them to violate their religious beliefs as
a result of the federal government's contrary interests (the HHS
mandate). The petitioner thus sought to challenge this accommodation
under RFRA under the point that the federal government has not proven
the exemption provision to be the least restrictive means of advancing
its interests here against his religious freedom guaranteed in the free
exercise clause of the First Amendment.

In regards to this question of whether the petitioner's free exercise
liberties are indeed substantially burdened by the exemption provided by
the defendant to the preventative care that must be provided in group
plans in ACA, the Court here defers to the precedent established in
*Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores* (2010), where it was held that
for-profit corporations are subject to the same preventative care
exemptions that HHS provides to religiously-affiliated nonprofit
corporations. The opinion of the Court stated that forcing such
corporations to provide preventative healthcare for its employees that
its owners object provides a substantial burden on their religious
freedom while also holding that applying the same HHS exemption mandate
to these corporations would be the least restrictive means of
maintaining the government's compelling interest in ensuring access to
preventative healthcare under RFRA. The Court here acknowledges that the
exemption process that nonprofits (such as that under the supervision of
the plaintiff) undergo would make their claims of a substantial burden
being placed on their religious freedom legitimate. The U.S. Appeals
Court for the Third District was ultimately misguided in its decision
that the plaintiffs cannot show that the exemption substantially
burdened their religious beliefs, as the judiciary ultimately has no
basis to judge whether a particular act substantially burdens an
individual's religious beliefs. Only the stated principles of that
individual, as declared in *Hobby Lobby Stores*, are responsible for
determining that. However, the judiciary *does* has a basis in the First
Amendment and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act to determine whether
the government has pursued the least restrictive means of pursuing a
compelling interest for society against one's religious beliefs.

The Court ultimately maintains its position in the earlier decision that
the HHS contraceptive mandate is indeed the least restrictive means of
accomplishing the government's stated interest in ensuring women's
access to preventative care and services. Such an interest relates to
the private, consensual sexual conduct of women, which, as the ACLU
stated in its brief, is further related to the Court's decision in
*Lawrence v. Texas* (2003) where it held that such conduct, regardless
of sexual orientation, was a liberty protected under the guarantee of
due process in Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. The Court also defers to
the decision made in *Griswold v. Connecticut* (1965), where it held had
upheld the use of contraceptives as part of the same right to privacy of
sexual conduct on the same constitutional basis. Since the Court has
clearly recognized such a liberty for women to manage their own private
sexual conduct, which includes their decision to use such preventative
care and services, the federal government thus has a compelling interest
in ensuring that women have access to the appropriate healthcare to
manage such sexual conduct. RFRA holds that the federal government
advance this interest while also considering the religious objections of
plaintiff to women being provided with such healthcare, which the HHS
exemption mandate, again, is indeed the least restrictive means of doing
so, as it initially held in *Hobby Case*.

\* \* \*

The petitioner remains mandated to facilitate the aforementioned
exemption process in order to allow insurers to provide the appropriate
preventative healthcare services to his employees in the diocese. Thus,
the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals, except in regards to its
understanding of substantial burdens on free exercise of religion, is

*Affirmed.*

History:
[[http://www.scotusblog.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/zubik-geneva-op-below.pdf]{.underline}](http://www.scotusblog.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/zubik-geneva-op-below.pdf)

RFRA text:
[[https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/2000bb%E2%80%931]{.underline}](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/2000bb%E2%80%931)

Misc info:
[[https://www.oyez.org/cases/2015/14-1418]{.underline}](https://www.oyez.org/cases/2015/14-1418),
[[http://www.scotusblog.com/case-files/cases/zubik-v-burwell/]{.underline}](http://www.scotusblog.com/case-files/cases/zubik-v-burwell/)
