---
layout: post
title:  journey
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2014
---

It\'s interesting how sometimes things you don\'t want or fear, whether
because they are unfamiliar to you or if you believe they are in some
way harmful or perceive a threat to you, can turn out to be one of the
most important things to you. I sat on a couch in my homely house in the
suburban area of Budapest, Hungary as I thought about traveling to
America, with mostly negative thoughts pertaining to the country. <!--more-->I\'ve
heard rumors of dislike and discrimination of immigrants to the U.S.,
but one can never be too sure of differentiating what people say and
what the respective reality is. However, I was one of the many Europeans
who firmly believed in the typical prejudiced beliefs about the U.S.,
such as that they had an education system of a lower standard, or they
cared too much about their possessions, or that they had not enough
regulation on free trade, and other beliefs. Immigration into the U.S.
was supposed to be a very difficult and arduous process for many people
wanting to emigrate into the U.S., and people have had to sometimes try
multiple times in the application process for the infamous green card in
order to finally get one because they had to clear up some factors of
ineligibility that disallowed them from immediately getting one. With
the H visa that my husband was given as a work permit to have a network
engineering job in the U.S., getting into the U.S. was very simple;
however, staying there involved the difficult process of getting a green
card and being a permanent resident. But I didn\'t want to go to the
U.S.; I mean, it would be wrong to leave my home country, the place I
grew up in, went to school in, made friends in, laughed in, cried in,
and all sorts of life activities, now or at anytime. I would\'ve felt
better if we could instead live in some decent country in Europe, like
England or Ireland, but the U.S. ... well, I knew almost nothing about
the U.S. and yet my husband was already there, awaiting my arrival with
our kids, Alex and Kevin. He insisted that he would\'ve felt comfortable
working and living in the U.S. (where some of his relatives were but in
New York, on the opposite side of the country from the state of
California). I\'d seriously considered staying in Hungary with Alex and
Kevin as a result of my extreme reluctance to go the U.S., but that
would just make the situation even more complicated, so I thought the
best course of action was to simply go to the U.S. Going to Jamaica, a
completely different environment and society from Hungary, and living
there when I was in my early twenties was easy -- I felt little fear and
sadness in leaving Hungary, because I was simply pursuing my academic
dreams as a teacher and trying to become more exposed to different
cultures and peoples in my youth as much as I could before it expired.
And now, two children and a marriage later, why on Earth would I try to
stake a living in an unfamiliar and strange world compared to what I\'ve
already experience -- it was simply overwhelming for a person in their
thirties. I looked at my watch: it was 6:30 P.M.; about time to leave
for the airport and say goodbye to Hungary, the country I knew so well.
I took Kevin, a son of six years, and Alex, a son of one year, along,
packed our suitcases in the car, and had my grandfather drive to the
bustling Budapest airport. On the way there, I watched the city of
Budapest summarize itself before my eyes from the passenger seat of the
old and worn red Ford our family owned. The ornate designs of the old
apartment blocks, the storefronts of various businesses, the
musty-smelling air, the various museums throughout city, the Budapest
zoo filled with all sorts of animals (but not koalas), the packed city
metro, the numerous and loud blue-green buses, and of course, the dull
yellow *villamoses* (trams) were all combined into this city of Budapest
that I saw and recognized all too well. However, this last sight of it
was made in departure from the city into a mysterious and unfamiliar
world, and soon I left all of it behind as we approached the airport.
Once we got there, it was a struggle for me to carry any of the
suitcases and bags we brought as with each step away from the known, the
passage into the unknown became more fearful and uninviting, but my
grandfather and my kids and I all eventually got to the Lufthansa
check-in booths and gave the attendants our suitcases. The security
checkpoint was one of the last stepping stones until we passed the point
of no return, as was the situation for many people in the airport.
However, as I looked around me, everyone, including families, men in
suits, soccer teams, tourists, and lone travelers, showed absolutely no
signs of fear, reluctance, or regret, not even Kevin or Alex (although
to be fair he was but a toddler and didn\'t really understand the
situation at hand and most likely it wouldn\'t be relevant to him
later). One by one, our shoes, backpacks, phones, and papers went
through the scanner with no illegal possessions within them. Of course,
then Kevin and Alex went through the security scanner clean and
pertaining no banned items, and as I came through, I was half-hoping
that the metal detector would alert the security attends about something
I had; perhaps keys, some loose change, or any sort of metallic object,
so that I would be able to delay getting through the security
checkpoint, even if it would cause a scene and attract everyone\'s
prying eyes towards us. Alas, no alert was given off by the metal
detector and I had passed through the security checkpoint. Our
grandfather, who had no business in coming to America with us, waved
goodbye to us behind the checkpoint and we waved back in the midst of
strangers and people of different backgrounds, including the wealthy and
the poor, the energetic and the tired, the Christians and the Muslims,
and all sorts of other peoples.
