---
layout: post
title:  colorless
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2016
Colorless Journey

By Alex Rankine

The train.

A tangle of human shapes.

Those who were no more

Were thrown from the wagon.
<!--more-->
A sack of flour,

Without a tomb.

The living lived on snow -- no food.

Unleashed animal hate.

Trampling. Tearing.

Groaning. Moaning.

Beasts of prey,

ready to kill for a crust of bread.

German spectators threw bread, amused themselves

Observed the spectacle with great interest.

"I like to give charity\..."

The snow kept falling.

A glacial wind screamed.

Too weak. Soaked blankets.

Close to death...

We reached the end.

That same night,

we reached the real end.

Hundreds of cries.

Strength is gone.

Buchenwald...

"Why don\'t they just shoot us now?"

Colorless^98^ Journey^102^ (citations)

By Alex Rankine

The train^99^.

A tangle of human shapes^98^.

Those who were no more^98^

Were thrown from the wagon^99^.

A sack of flour^99^,

Without a tomb^99^.

The living lived on^100^ snow^100^ -- no food^100^.

Unleashed^101^ animal hate^101^.

Trampling^101^. Tearing^101^.

Groaning^103^. Moaning^103^.

Beasts of prey^101^,

ready to kill for a crust of bread^101^.

German^100^ spectators^101^ threw^100^ bread^100^, amused
themselves^100^

Observed the spectacle with great interest^100^,

"I like to give charity\..."^100^

The snow kept falling.^103^

A glacial wind screamed.^103^

Too weak.^103^ Soaked blankets.^103^

Close to death^103^...

We reached the end.^103^

That same night^103^,

we reached the real end^103^.

Hundreds of cries^103^.

Strength is gone^102^.

Buchenwald^103^...

"Why don\'t they just shoot us now?"^103^

Rankine, Alex

Ms. Sato

Hon. English 10 (P. 2)

February 24^th^, 2016

Statement of Intent

"Colorless Journey" primarily visualizes the claustrophobic and
revolting horrors that Elie Wiesel experienced on the wintry and
melancholic train ride to Buchenwald, as described in pages 98 to 103,
in addition to expressing the ruthless pragmatism, hopelessness, and
agony felt by prisoners confined in wagon. Most powerfully, the poem
also sheds light on how Germans living during the Holocaust were
dismissive of the suffering of the prisoners when they saw it before
them. In essence, the poem directly addresses this overwhelming motif of
death that we see in passages like in the train journey and provides a
sense of what death actually means to Elie and many others as Holocaust
survivors who sharing his thoughts.

The first stanza features an introduction to the scene of the train; the
phrase "the train" is punctuated in its own line, placing an emphasis on
this hellish train itself that sinks into the background of the chaos
and suffering found later in the poem. The rest of the stanza avoids the
use of pronouns, opting to refer to the prisoners moreso as objects and
bodies that were already dead with phrases like "A tangle of human
shapes" or "a sack of flour"; it gives some perspective into how the
Nazi captors of the prisoners might have thought of them, given the
horrendous treatment of the naked prisoners.

The second stanza details the dog-eat-dog society among the prisoners
that was produced out of their harsh environment. I specifically set up
the scene of the train to reflect a primal and predatory mosh pit, a
theme that introduced with the words "animal hate." Punctuating phrases
such as "trampling" or "tearing" allows readers to imagine how abrupt,
fast-paced, and tense the environment in the train was; at any moment,
someone could rush you for a mere ration of bread, much like "a beast of
prey" does for the flesh of another.

The third stanza expands this theme, mentioning the Germans who looked
upon this jungle with intrigue and without concern for the prisoners.
Using more objective and passive words such as "spectators," "observed,"
or "interest" detaches the Germans from the ruthless scene in the train
entirely, noting their inability to emphasize with the prisoners and
recognize the inherent wrong behind accepting these horrors. Going
further, I mention how the Germans amused themselves by throwing bread
down to the savage prisoners, providing the weak excuse "I like to give
charity\..." in order to have the reader direct shock and disgust
towards these cruel and aloof Germans Elie had originally witnessed.

In regards to the fourth stanza, I sought to express the depression and
somberness of the prisoners in the context of what was described in the
previous passages. Mentioning a barrage of endless snow and gusts,
"soaked blankets", and soft, whispered cries of "too weak," the stanza
is strongly imbued with the aforementioned motif of death to the extent
that the reader becomes desensitized to it, as do the prisoners. They
initially accept that they "reached the end" and thus prepare themselves
for death accordingly; after all, death seems like a far more inviting
alternative to the trials of the Holocaust described in the poem.

Finally, the last stanza brings out the sheer hopelessness of the
prisoners: as the train reaches "Buchenwald", what is left of the horde
of prisoners let out "hundreds of cries" as "the real end" approaches.
This new end is far more bleak and terrifying than "the end" mentioned
in the previous stanza; it offers only the continuation of the
prisoners\' agony and suffering rather than a favorable albeit slow
death on the journey. This idea is finalized as the poem ends with an
outcry from the masses of prisoners, exclaiming "Why don\'t they just
shoot us now?" and essentially begging for death. The ultimatum provided
is that in *Night*, Elie Wiesel portrays death as an initially
terrifying and feared force threatening all of the Jews that
progressively transforms into something to be desired instead of living
the earthly hell of the Holocaust.
