---
layout: post
title:  flounder
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2015
---

Natasha Tretheway's poem "Flounder" presents the story of a young
biracial girl and her aunt Sugar at a fishing spot, as they engage in
various pleasantries and the aunt encourages the girl to adopt a white
appearance. This continues until the aunt catches a flounder, whose
struggle against the aunt resonates immensely with the young girl and
her biracial identity. <!--more--> Ultimately, Tretheway in "Flounder" expresses
the predicaments of biracial individuals in understanding and embracing
their racial identity as well as in maintaining the integrity of such,
particularly by way of using dialects, sentence structure, imagery, and
sound devices that enhance the themes of contrast between black and
white racial identities and resistance against identity disintegration
seen in the poem. In this case, the biracial individual in
question is the young girl (we know she has a black aunt and a white
father); however, with Trethewey being biracial herself, the analysis
should note how the author's racial identity and historical background
might play a role in the personality of the girl in the poem. In terms
of historical context, the poem is presumably set in the American South,
in the later part of the 20th century (the poet herself was born in 1966
and resides in the South), when racial tensions among blacks and whites
were prevalent following the civil rights movement of the 1960s. Many
blacks believed that having a lighter skin color, especially for
biracial people, was an advantage in avoiding racial contempt from
others. This would explain the aunt's encouragement to the girl that she
should maintain a white identity. Having made such contextual notes
about the poem, the analysis will proceed to investigate the notions
about the poem's significance to the subject of racial identity, firstly
in regards to the aunt's view about racial identity and how they relate
to the young girl.

The contrast between white and black racial identities displayed in Aunt
Sugar's attitudes leads the young girl to experience difficulties in
understanding the nature of her biracial identity. As they both sit near
a pond in the sun, Aunt Sugar lends the girl a hat and declares ""You
'bout as white as your dad / and you gone stay like that.'" Essentially,
Aunt Sugar expresses to the girl that she should maintain a white skin
color (thus giving her a hat to avoid darkening) similar to that of her
dad; the aunt further implies that the girl should internally maintain a
white identity, an image of race and color produced by the phrase "as
white as your dad." However, the key part of the aunt's language her
lies in southern black dialect, such as in pronouncing the words "about"
as " 'bout" or saying "gone" instead of "gonna" or "going to." This use
of distinctly southern black dialect provides a clear image of the
aunt's racial identity set in the reader's mind that in turn provides a
contrast between the content of the aunt's dialogue and her racial
identity. As the girl's black aunt, she essentially encourages her
biracial niece to maintain a white identity. In additions, she places
particular emphasis on this encouragement with repetition of imperative
statements beginning with the word "you," which further pressures the
girl to follow her advice. This in turn creates a racial identity crisis
that tears the girl between the distinctly black identity of her aunt
and the white identity that her aunt pressures her to adopt as a result
of this contrast of racial identities seen in the aunt's dialogue and
her accompanying dialect. Although the girl, being young, does not
address this contrast and nor what her aunt says, these contrasting
racial images do bring a sense of puzzlement and pressure that Trethewey
for the girl and for the reader. Tretheway thus presents the girl's
struggle to understand her biracial identity as a result of this
pressure that originates from Aunt Sugar's dialect, sentence structure,
imagery and language. The analysis will now investigate how the girl,
later in the poem, struggles to maintain the integrity of her racial
identity against outside pressures in witnessing the struggles of the
caught flounder.

Resonating with the struggles of the flounder, the young girl in turn
comes to recognize the pressures placed on her general racial identity,
particularly earlier in the poem, and in turn struggles to maintain the
integrity of her racial identity, as denoted by contrasting imagery and
tones of language. As Aunt Sugar catches the flounder, the young girl
describes her as "reeling and tugging hard at the fish that wriggled and
tried to fight back." While she works to reel the flounder in, Aunt
Sugar describes the flounder as having a black side and a white side.
Focusing mainly on the first part of this scene, the girl clearly has a
sympathetic tone for the fish (while she becomes more indifferent
towards Aunt Sugar) as she uses more positive imagery allocating justice
and righteousness to the struggles of the fish as it "wriggled and tried
to fight back" against the comparatively harsh image of the aunt
"reeling and tugging hard" that opposes the fish's resistance. She
appears to associate herself with the black-and-white flounder
struggling against the pressure of physical forces as the aunt threatens
to reel him up to her liking, an allusion to a similar incident earlier
in the poem where the aunt pressured the girl to identify with white
persons. This resonance of the flounder's predicament to the girl would
suggest that the girl here connects the struggles of the fish against
outside pressures that threatens the disintegration of his identity as a
fish to the pressures she experienced from her aunt for her to embrace a
white racial identity that in turn threatens the disintegration of her
racial identity. Her connections here are subtly indicated in
contrasting parallelisms she makes in regards to the actions of the aunt
in "reeling and tugging" while the fish "wriggled and tried to fight
back." The repetition of the two different suffixes, denoting a present
tense and a contrasting past tense, places more tension between the
diverging efforts of the aunt and the fish, which strengthens the sense
that the aunt is pressuring the fish that tried to resist these
pressures (but ultimately failed, hence the past tense). Since the girl
associates the scrambling of the flounder with her own efforts to her
racial identity against her aunt's will, the girl would thus recognize
the subsequent tension of the pressures of her grandmother and her
racial identity. Although she, as described previously, does not fully
understand or accept her mixed identity, the pressures she feels from
her aunt's advice produces a general threat of the disintegration of her
identity, and in her resonance of with the struggles of the fish, the
girl also becomes engaged in a struggle to maintain the integrity of her
racial identity, whereas she did not before because she did not
recognize these pressures (thus noting the significance of the
flounder's struggle to the girl). Having analyzed how, through the
aforementioned imagery and language tones, the young girl's associations
with the flounder in their similar predicaments lead to the girl's
recognition of the racial pressures of her aunt posing a threat to her
own identity, the analysis will now observe an evolution of identity and
significance of the flounder to the girl that ultimately produces
understanding and self-acceptance of her biracial identity.

As the poem progresses, the increasing importance of the differing
colors of the flounder, as further denoted by use of rhymes and
onomatopoeia, to the racial identity of the girl enlightens her racial
self-awareness and presents her with a challenge to embrace her biracial
identity as a whole. When the flounder is finally caught by Aunt Sugar,
the flounder "landed with a thump" as the girl "stood there watching
that fish flip-flop, switch sides with every jump." Firstly, the notion
of the girl standing in the scene and watching the flounder "flip-flop"
would indicate that this jumping of the fish is particularly significant
to the girl, especially as it switches from the black side to the white
every jump. Given the observed significance of racial identity in the
poem, the girl clearly views the flip-flopping of the flounder as the
fish having a biracial identity with two sides of contrasting colors
(black and white). Such racial distinction given to each side of the
fish is supported the sound devices that accompany the jumping of
switches, such as with the onomatopoeia of "thump" rhyming with "jump."
This attributes a sound effect (mentally played by the reader) to the
switching of the sides that emphasizes the contrast of the black and
white sides of the flounder; the onomatopoeia of "flip-flop" also gives
this distinction to each side and its color with sounds of flip-flopping
similarly placing emphasis on switching of sides. Ultimately, the girl
is encaptured by the image of the flip-flopping of the fish and the
switching of its colors as they relate to her biracial identity. The
flounder's flip-flopping and how it seemingly switches its colored sides
indecisively relates to the girl's experiences in maintaining two
distinct racial identities (or sides) and not clearly associating
herself with either despites various racial pressures from others, such
as from Aunt Sugar in this poem. By being able to relate this dilemma of
identity crisis to the flip-flopping of the dying fish, she here,
through pondering (as suggested by the image of her standing before the
flounder) recognizes the nature of her biracial identity, thus perhaps
moving her toward a fuller understanding and acceptance of her identity.
There is no clear indication of how the girl perceives her biracial
identity, but the reader gets a sense that she is moving in that
direction. In observing the struggle of understanding and accepting her
biracial identity presented to the girl by way of resonance with the
flounder's flip-flopping, as supported by sound devices of onomatopoeia
and indicative imagery in the language of the scene, the analysis will
synthesize the various notions about racial identity suggested by
Tretheway in this poem, extending beyond the character of the biracial
girl.

While the poem "Flounder" by Natasha Trethewey does illustrate, with
regional dialects, specific sentence structure, extensive imagery, and
sound devices, the predicaments of biracial individuals in coming to
terms with and holding the integrity of their racial identity against
outside pressures, the overall message that Trethewey leaves in the poem
is to encourage self-determination of racial identity. What Trethewey
refers to as racial identity is not the actual group one belongs in
based on one's ethnic origins or skin color, but rather what one
recognizes oneself as based on one's personal feelings and emotions. Of
course, this view of racial identity is expressed in how the girl in the
poem throughout questions her mixed racial identity and struggles to
understand and accept how she views herself as she resonates with the
identity of the flounder. Even as she ponders about these questions, she
begins to resist the pressures of her aunt in accepting a white
identity. Clearly, Trethewey in this poem expresses that
self-identification of racial identity should lie with oneself and their
thoughts rather than with outside influences and perspectives. In
addition, this message does not apply to biracial people exclusively,
since emotions and personal feelings can lead one to perceive oneself as
being of a different race than what one appears to be (but often does
apply in biracial people's situations as they try to find how they
identify more with one race or the other, as exemplified by the
indecisive flip-flopping of the flounder). However, Trethewey also does
not dismiss outside perceptions of one's racial identity and recognizes
such as valid; Aunt Sugar's encouragements to the girl about maintaining
a white identity clearly denotes the aunt's perception of her as white
(or at least this is what she wants to influence the girl with so that
she will adopt a white identity and attract less racial animosity, given
the history of the South and the aunt's experiences as an elder) and
show the poet's acceptance of differing perspectives on a person's
racial identity other than that of the person. In this sense, Trethewey
ultimately affirms that perceptions of racial identity vary according to
one's point of view and personal experience, thus suggesting that the
racial identification of a person is indeterminate in a society where
various outside perspectives and one's self-perception contrast.
