---
layout: post
title:  contender
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2014
---
Throughout the story of the novel "The Contender" by Robert Lipsyte, Mr.
Donatelli, a gym owner and a boxing manager, is significant to the main
character of the book, Alfred Brooks, by teaching him some of his ideals
and beliefs. Initially, Alfred Brooks is a young black high school
dropout in Harlem who came to Mr. Donatelli in hopes of making his life
meaningful and actually become someone in his neighborhood by becoming a
champion boxer. <!--more-->In their first encounter, Alfred was told by Mr.
Donatelli that the road to becoming a champion in long and hard, and in
doing so, Mr. Donatelli mentioned some key ideals and beliefs of hi that
have shaped and developed Alfred's character throughout the course of
the story. Alfred, as we see later on in the story, takes what he has
learned from Mr. Donatelli and adopts them, then applies them to
situations, and lastly taught them to others. Of course, this shows that
Mr. Donatelli is significant to Alfred through his ideals and beliefs,
and to justify my claim, I shall present quotations from the respective
events in the story that I have mentioned. Therefore, let us proceed to
analyze said excerpts from the story.

The evolution of Alfred Brook's character is highlighted by the
quotations and excerpts from the story that I have selected to show what
Mr. Donatelli taught to Alfred and what Alfred did in reaction. On page
35, paragraph one, a conversation is shown between Alfred and Mr.
Donatelli when they first met at the boxing gym during which Mr.
Donatelli teaches Alfred an important ideal: "\'I want to be somebody,\'
\[said Alfred\]. \'Everybody is somebody,\' \[said Mr. Donatelli\].
\'Somebody special.\' A champion.\' ... \'Everyone wants to be a
champion. That\'s not enough. You have to start by wanting to be a
contender, the man coming up, the man who knows there\'s a good chance
he\'ll never get to the top, ... It\'s the climbing that makes the man.
Getting to the top is an extra reward.\'" Here, Mr. Donatelli teaches
Alfred one of his fundamental beliefs in telling Alfred that becoming a
champion requires one to actually become a contender and have some
experience and successes before reaching the best status one can attain.
Essentially, simply trying is not enough for becoming the best, and
instead one must push themselves relentlessly and painfully in order to
become a champion. For a person like Alfred who is starting the from
very bottom with no experience in almost anything nor meaning in their
life, this could seem be to a tough challenge in being a contender that
they may want to give up because of this difficulty and thus will remain
someone insignificant. However, Alfred, as we see later, steps up to the
challenges (otherwise he wouldn\'t have become a skilled boxer) and
eventually adopts this belief. Some time later into their conversation
in Mr. Donatelli\'s boxing gym, Mr. Donatelli brings up an ideal about
trying in an activity when speaking about the difficulties of becoming a
contender on page 36, paragraph one: "\'It\'s not easy trying to become
a contender. It\'s never any fun in the beginning. It\'s hard work,
you\'ll want to quit at least once everyday. If you quit before you
really try, that\'s worse than never starting all. And nothing\'s
promised to you, nothing\'s ever promised you." In this quote, Mr.
Donatelli states the road to becoming a contender is filled with
hardships, but if one gives up the challenges of becoming a contender
without allocating any real effort to it, then they have truly failed.
On the other hand, it is never guaranteed that one shall become a
contender if they do try, but this at least gives a chance. This
unmeasurable probability of becoming a contender, and afterwards, a
champion, was enough to inspire Alfred to try his hardest in boxing,
apply the ideals and beliefs he learned to different situations, and
spread this ideology to others, as shown in next pieces of textual
evidence. When riding home from a boxing match, Alfred, in a short
conversation with a man named Spoon, shows that he wants to try to
become a contender, as shown on page 86, paragraph one to paragraph two:
"He \[Spoon\] stopped for a light, and looked at Alfred. \'Do you want
to become a fighter?\' \'I\'m going to try.\' \[said Alfred\]." Although
there is no real way to show that Alfred had adopted Mr. Donatelli\'s
ideals and beliefs, Alfred seems to have adopted his concept of wanting
to become a contender rather than directly a champion as well as trying
to have a chance to become a contender and/or champion, for he has said
this in presence of others, including some of his friends who were
riding home with him, and a former boxer, Spoon. This would
theoretically inspire Alfred and give him motivation to become a
contender, and perhaps a champion as well. Now we can see an initial
change in Alfred\'s character, for he has stated that he will put effort
in an activity \*boxing in this case) in order to try to become
somebody,. Which is better than being insignificant and making no stride
for significance. In this way, Mr. Donatelli has influenced Alfred with
his beliefs and ideals, therefore making him significant to Alfred by
developing his character as the story progresses. The second stage of
the character transformation of Alfred is seen on page 142, paragraph
one in Alfred\'s thoughts when he trains in boxing: "Jab-jab-hook ...
jab-hook-right ... hook to the body ... cross the chin ... body ... head
... jab .. jab ... jab ... \[These are presumably Alfred\'s thoughts
during his daily life\]." We see here that Alfred thinks of various
boxing moves and combinations in his mind, and there is no indication as
when he has these thoughtsl however, such obsessive mental behavior
suggests that Alfred is constantly thinking about boxing and is trying
to constantly improve. This clearly shows that Alfred is indeed trying
hard to become a contender (and later a champion) by incorporating both
the physical and mental (strategies and combinations) into his boxing
training. From this I conclude that Alfred has adopted Mr. Donatelli\'s
beliefs and ideals of trying hard and striving for successes in anything
so that one could be considered a contender. Of course, all this effort
could prove to not make Alfred a contender eventually, but by simply
trying to train in boxing, Alfred acknowledges that this is a risk.
Hence, by teaching his ideals and beliefs to Alfred, who is trying with
effort in his boxing training in order to arise from being simply
somebody to being a contender and/or a champion, Mr. Donatelli is
significant to Alfred for developing his character. Lastly, we see a
final stage in Alfred\'s transformation in character after Alfred had
quit participating in boxing matches (but not boxing as a whole) and has
not attained the status or prestige of being a contender or a champion
but teaches a former friends of his and a drug addict, James, the ideals
and beliefs Mr. Donatelli had taught him in order for James to improve
his own life, as seen as the conclusion of the book on page 226,
paragraph one to paragraph two: "\[We\'ll help you\] get a job.\' \[said
Alfred\]. \'Grocery boy,\' said James. \'For start. Nothing\'s promised
you, man, but you ain\'t gonna know nothing till you try. Maybe get to
build things like you always wanted.\'" Without a doubt, Alfred
explicitly displays knowledge of the ideals and beliefs Mr. Donatelli
had taught him and passes this knowledge down to James, who was one much
like Alfred at the start of story in being somebody insignificant, and
so receiving this knowledge, adopting, and applying it will allow James
to make somebody of himself, such as an engineer, as Alfred had suggest.
In addition, James could teach these concepts to others in need, thus
restarting the cycle. Of course, while Alfred himself did not become a
contender or a champion, he did become an athletic figure in community,
and his success in boxing has made him somebody, and that is what Alfred
had hoped in the beginning, thus now giving him confidence to try other
things, such as finishing high school, getting a more respectable
career, etc. All of this development of Alfred\'s character stems from
Mr. Donatelli, who taught these beliefs and ideals to Alfred, therefore
making him significant to Alfred in the story/ The presented quotations
and excerpts from the story clearly show that Mr. Donatelli is
significant to Alfred in that he teaches him some ideals and beliefs
that gradually develops Alfred\'s character in three stages.

As the story progressed in the novel "The Contender," Alfred Brooks, the
main character, grew from being somebody insignificant and unknown to
being an athletic boxing figure in his community, and his development in
character can all be credited to Mr. Donatelli, a gym owner and a boxing
manager, who taught Alfred ideals and beliefs that inspired Alfred to
train in boxing in order to become somebody. Said ideals and beliefs
mainly consist of training hard and striving to become a contender first
before trying to become a champion, as well as not giving before real
effort is put into something (boxing in this case) and realizing that
nothing is given for certain in life. Using these beliefs and ideals,
Alfred guided himself into adopting these ideals with motivation gained
from publicly announcing to significant others that he will try to
become a contender and/or a champion, into applying them in his boxing
training, and teaching them to James, a former friend of Alfred and a
drug addict, so that they could together reignite their friendship and
help James get rid of his drug addiction, get an education, and earn a
respectable occupation in the world. A transformation in Alfred\'s
character is clearly seen in those three stages, and he has actually
become somebody notable by training and trying hard to succeed in
boxing, which allows him to strive for success and perfection in other
pursuits and activities. This is largely due to how Mr. Donatelli had
taught Alfred several key beliefs and ideals at the beginning of the
story, and so Mr. Donatelli is then vital to the development of
Alfred\'s character in the book. In conclusion, Mr. Donatelli is
significant to Alfred by developing his character as the story
progressed as a result of the beliefs and ideals Mr. Donatelli taught to
him the at the start of the book "The Contender" by Robert Lipsyte.
