---
layout: post
title:  antinous
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2015
---

Following Telemachus\' departure from Ithaca in search of his long-lost
father Odysseus, the suitors at Odysseus\' house become wary of
Telemachus\' efforts to bring his father back, considering how this
might lead to Odysseus\' return and thereby prevent the suitors from
marrying Penelope and donning the crown of Ithaca. <!--more--> In particular, Lord
Antinous and his companion Eurymachus become increasingly concerned and
distressed over Telemachus\' search, which ultimately explicates
Antinous\' plot to gain Odysseus\' title as King of Ithaca by courting
and marrying his wife Penelope, in addition to the ambitious and
domineering personality with which he relentlessly pursues control over
Ithaca. His strength and presence among the rest of the suitors is
immediately demonstrated in the beginning of the passage, with "lord
Antinous \[sitting\] apart, dashing Eurymachus beside him, ringleaders
\..." (4-5); the imagery of Antinous separating himself from the rest of
the suitors suggests that he considers himself above them and
strengthens the notion of him being a "ringleader." In this sense,
Antinous may be considered as one of the more prominent and main suitors
for Penelope; the word choice in specifically referring to him as a
"ringleader" (such as of animals) as opposed to simply a leader (of
general people) indicates that Antinous is to some extent the most
eminent and distinguished out of all the unruly and rambunctious
suitors. His personality and role in the group of suitors is
subsequently clarified as he interrogates another suitors on
Telemachus\' whereabouts: "\'Tell me the truth!\' Antinous wheeled on
Noemon. \'Where did he go? And what young crew went with him? Ithaca\'s
best? Or his own slaves and servants?\'" (7-9) Unique verbiage in the
word "wheeled," along with the rambling Antinous seems to be engaging in
with series of short interrogative sentences, adds a particularly
spiteful and forceful tone to Antinous\' monologue that reveals his
authoritarian personality and how relentless he is in attempting to stop
Telemachus from continuing his journey. This would point toward his
ambitions to marry Penelope and thereby gain control of Ithaca, since
Telemachus\' search for Odysseus works in direct contradiction of this
plot; the sheer rage and stress in Antinous\' tone only further
amplifies Antinous\' apparent desperation and zealousy to halt
Telemachus\' plans.

Of course, Antinous\' ravings also serve to elucidate his spiteful and
demeaning perception of Telemachus early in the passage that
progressively becomes more explicit. As he prepares to engage in his
speech to the suitors regarding Telemachus, Antinous is depicted to have
a "dark heart filled with fury, blazing with anger--eyes like searing
fire" (17-18); such emotionally charged metaphors and similes for the
vengeance and spite that Antinous feels towards Telemachus clearly casts
Antinous (and by association Eurymachus) in a dark light and portrays
him as an adversary to Telemachus before Antinous has actually expressed
his anger towards Telemachus. In his hatred towards Telemachus, Antinous
seems to take on a condescending tone when referring to Odysseus\' son,
cursing him as a "young cub \[who\] slips away just like *that*--"
during his speech to the suitors. As expected of his domineering
personality, Antinous clearly holds Telemachus to be inferior to him on
the basis of his adversary\'s youth, inexperience, and seeming naivety
in searching for his father. This is suggested by how he compares
Telemachus to a young animal unfamiliar with the world and stresses (as
indicated by the italicization of "that") how careless and foolish the
boy is in searching for Odysseus, who is presumed by many to be dead.
However, this excerpt also reveals Antinous\' own doubts regarding
whether or not Odysseus is alive and seeks to impede Telemachus\' search
in order to ensure that Odysseus is not guided back to Ithaca and does
not assume control over the throne of Ithaca. The hatred that Antinous
displays towards Telemachus is thus the product of his fear that
Odysseus\' child has the capability to reach and bring back his father,
thus rendering the relationship between him and Telemachus to be even
more contentious and explaining why Antinous might adopt such a
condescending tone when speaking of Telemachus in order to hide this
sense of fear. In the conclusion of his speech, Antinous finally
declares that he intends to slay Telemachus before the child fully sets
off on his search for Odysseus, threatening that "this gallant voyage of
his to find his father will find *him* wrecked at last!" (29-30) The
italicization of the word "him" allows Antinous to stress that
Telemachus will inevitably be defeated and in turn display confidence in
that his plans to overtake the crown of Ithaca will succeed at last.
Ironically, Antinous also seems to give some recognition towards that he
is essentially the antagonist in this situation; his word choice in
describing Telemachus\' efforts as "gallant" and the fact that Antinous
is attempting to impede Telemachus would thereby place Antinous in the
moral wrong. This strengthens the notion that Antinous is an adversary
to Telemachus to the extent that the characters are somewhat conscious
of their roles as protagonist and antagonist.

Although the passage clearly establishes the contentious relationship
between Telemachus and Antinous (and Eurymachus), the fate of the
suitors as a whole is far more ambiguous despite being left on a
seemingly positive note for the suitors. Ultimately, the passage
concludes with the end of Antinous\' speech against Telemachus, with a
short mention of how "\[the suitors\] all roared approval, urged him on,
rose at once and retired to Odysseus\' palace." (31-32) The alliteration
of "roared," "rose," and "retired" produces a systematic and definite
rhythm that helps convey the process by which the suitors transition
back to their normal routines, as if roaring, rising, and retiring was a
regular procedure of the suitors. The sense of regularity in the
suitors\' actions would imply that life will continue as normal for them
in Odysseus\' absence and that they would continue to leech the
hospitality of Odysseus\' house, "amus\[ing\] themselves with discus and
long throwing spears." (2) Thus, one could derive that the suitors might
succeed in their plans of courting Penelope and becoming the king of
Ithaca based on this return to regularity, even more so since Antinous
plans to slay Telemachus. However, Antinous is clearly one of the
antagonists in *The Odyssey*, and one could infer that his plans will
inevitably fail since the audience knows that Odysseus, the hero of the
epic, will inevitably succeed in returning to Ithaca and reclaiming the
throne (as established in Book I). Ultimately, the audience understands
that the suitors will be defeated by Odysseus at one point despite the
great prospects of the suitors as limited to the context of this
passage; however, the audience does not necessarily know how this will
occur later in the epic. The notion of Odysseus\' (and by association
his allies\') inevitable victory over their obstacles and enemies is
considered by the audience throughout *The Odyssey*, but ultimately one
must progress through the epic in order to understand how this victory
unfolded, especially when circumstances seem dire for the heroes (such
as in this passage). Ultimately, the greater theme here regards how
while the beginning and end of the plot is always known during *The
Odyssey*, the value of the epic poem lies primarily in Odysseus\'
journey and the sequence of events that create the story between these
two endpoints, as demonstrated in the character and plot development in
passage that suggests a positive fate for Penelope\'s suitors that
directly contradicts Odysseus\' eventual heroic victory over the
suitors.
