---
layout: post
title:  thank you ma'am
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2013
---

In the the short story,
"Thank You Ma\'m" written by Langston Hughes, a character
in the book named Mrs. Luella Bates Washington Jones(commonly referred
to just Mrs.Jones)takes a boy named Roger, who tried to steal her
pocketbook, to her home and surprisingly treats him kindly. This brings
up the question of "Why do you think Mrs. Jones takes Roger home?" <!--more--> While
there are numerous theories or claims that can be used to answer this
question, I decided to settle with one and that claim is that Mrs. Jones
took Roger home as she wanted to care for Roger which she did as Roger
didn\'t have anyone to care for him Roger. This claim represents what I
believe is the best answer to the previously mentioned question;
however, a claim isn\'t justified until until proven so with various
evidences. Therefore, through this essay, I will present the appropriate
evidence, through quotes and textual excerpts along with page numbers to
see for yourself and I will explain and interpret them to understand and
relate them back to my claim. Therefore, let us proceed to explain these
claims by starting with the first set of evidence which are ranked
second in terms of supporting my claim.

The first set of evidence is about how Roger doesn\'t have anyone to
care for him which is clear due to the following quotes. The first piece
piece of evidence showing this is in page 2, lines 29-39, when Mrs.
Jones asks, \'If I turn you loose, will you run?\' asked the woman.
\'Yes ma\'m,\' said the boy. \'Then I won\'t turn you loose,\' said the
woman. She did not release him. \'I'm very sorry, lady, I'm sorry,\'
whispered the boy. Um-hum!And your face is dirty. I got a great mind to
wash it for you. Ain\'t you got nobody home to tell you to wash your
face?\' \'No\'m,\' said the boy." In the quote, Mrs. Jones asks Roger if
that if she lets go of him, will he run in which responded to by saying
yes in which she didn\'t release him which shows that Roger\'s
caretakers didn\'t teach him how to answer such questions. Then she
asked if he has anyone to order him to wash his face. The boy, whom as
Roger, said no which shows that his caretakers didn\'t teach him to wash
his face or doing it for him. This is supports my claim as he directly
said that he doesn\'t have anyone to order him or teach him to wash his
face and teach him. They also didn\'t teach how to act in certain
scenarios and if Roger\'s caretakers couldn\'t do those two things, then
one could easily say that his caretakers didn\'t take care of him as
that is what caretakers do or don\'t take care of him properly which is
even worse. It is related to the part of my claim that states that Roger
doesn\'t have anyone to care for him and thus, strengthening my claim.
As it strengthens one part of my claim, it strengthens the entire claim.
Another piece of evidence would be in page 4, lines 85-90 when Roger was
washing his face and Mrs. Jones says, "\'Here I am trying to get home to
cook me a bite and you snatch my pocketbook. Maybe, you ain\'t been to
your supper either, late as it be. Have you?\' \'There\'s nobody home at
my house\', said the boy" As you can see, Mrs Jones asked Roger if he
has eaten which was in the context of Roger washing his face. Roger
responded by saying the there is nobody at his house which shows that
there is nobody there for him. It also shows that nobody was there to
feed him either. Yet again, this could be traced back to my claim as
this means that his caretaker are neglecting him by going on some
vacation or something similar and thus not caring for him which
caretakers shouldn\'t do. In addition, they aren\'t there to feed him
either and therefore not caring for him as that is what caretakers
should do. This fits into the part of my claim that states that Roger
had nobody to care for him which was correct at the time and thus, it
proves my statement. Yet another piece of evidence would be in page 4,
lines 91-95 where Mrs. Jones says, "\'I believe you\'re hungry - or been
hungry - to snatch my notebook.\'" "\'I want a pair of blue suede
shoes,\' said the boy," What happened is that Mrs, Jones made a remark
about Roger stealing her pocketbook which he did try to do which shows
that his caretakers did not raise him properly and teach him not to
steal. Roger tries to justify his actions by saying he wanted a pair of
blue suede shoes which shows that his caretakers did not buy him the
shoes or give him money to buy such things which they should\'ve done to
be good caretakers. This is is related to my claim Roger\'s caretakers
neglected him as they didn\'t allow him to buy shoes for himself by
giving him money to do so or just buying the shoes for him which shows
that they didn\'t care for him properly as that is what caretakers
should do. They also did not teach him not to steal which should\'ve
been taught. This relates and strengthens my claim as Roger\'s could not
be there for him yet again. This means Roger had nobody to care for hum
and thus supports my claim. The final piece of evidence in this set is
in page 3, lines 43-44 to where the book cites, "He looked as if he were
fourteen or fifteen, frail and willow-wild, in tennis shoes and blue
jeans." The book is clearly giving background information on Roger in
order to get an idea of what he looks like and who he is. The key words
are "frail and willow-wild" which doesn\'t have a definition so I
analyzed it and concluded that it means that something is wild and
moving wildly like a willow during a storm. This relates to my claims
due to the book saying that Roger is frail and wild in someway. It also
shows that Roger is weak which means that his caretakers didn\'t build
him to be fit or strong. This is relevant to my claim as it suggests
that Roger\'s caretakers didn\'t raise him properly at all making him
wild and jumpy and thus not caring for him due to improper care. They
also didn\'t care for him by not raising him so that he will be fit and
strong which is what they should\'ve done. That relates to my claim as
part of it states Roger didn\'t have anyone to care for him which this
strengthens clearly. All in all, it is clear that Roger\'s family
doesn\'t care about him due to the various evidence shown and with that
being said, let us move on the second set of evidence which is ranked
last in terms of supporting my claim.

My second set of evidence mainly consists of quotes and textual evidence
in the story that shows parts where Mrs. Jones could\'ve been caring for
Roger which supports my claim as it strengthens the idea that Mrs Jones
took Roger as she wanted to care for him and did so but more importantly
that she did so and as it shows the actions of how she cared for her, it
supports the part that said that which she did care for him. One example
would be in page 4, lines 74-79, where Mrs. Jones says, "\'Then, Roger,
you go to that sink and wash your face,\' said the woman, whereupon she
turned him loose---at last. Roger looked at the door---looked at the
woman---looked at the door---and went to the sink." You can clearly see
that Mrs. Jones ordered Roger to wash his face which he did by going to
the sink which is straight forward. Although he was hesitant, Mrs. Jones
also forced him to wash his face which is teaching him to be obedient.
She was also teaching him to do such things passively. This supports my
claim as she was caring for him by ordering him to wash his face which
is caring as she cared about his personal hygiene and showed that Mrs.
Jones cared for Roger. She also forced him to do it which was caring
also as she taught him to be obedient and do such things passively which
shows that Mrs. Jones cared for Roger as teaching thing to your young is
caring as they learn from it. This relates to the part of my claim that
said Mrs. Jones cared for Roger which strengthens it as a whole. Another
piece of evidence is in page 6, lines 140-141 where the book states,
"She heated some lima beans, made the cocoa, and set the table." As you
can see, Mrs. Jones made supper for the two of them and thus, fed him.
She also gave some responsibility as she taught how to prepare meals to
Roger just by preparing food and him witnessing it. This also
strengthens my claim as she was clearly caring for Roger by feeding him
which showed the Mrs. Jones cared for Roger. She also cared for him by
teaching him how to prepare food by simply looking which gives Roger
some experience with basic cooking and responsibility which is caring as
a caretaker should teach their young these things over time and be more
responsible which is exactly what Mrs. Jones is doing. These two things
are relevant to my claim as they support that Mrs. Jones cared for Roger
and therefore it strengthens my claim. Yet another piece of evidence is
in page 7, lines 152-156 where Mrs. Jones says, "\'Now, here, take this
ten dollars and buy yourself some blue suede shoes. And next time, do
not make the mistake of latching onto my pocketbook nor nobody
else\'s*---*because shoes come by devilish like that will burn your
feet.\'" It shown in the text that Mrs. Jones gave ten dollars to allow
him to buy some shoes which gave him more responsibility and satisfying
his personal needs which is caring. She also taught him a lesson on the
consequences of stealing when she said, "\...do not make the mistake of
latching onto my pocketbook nor nobody else\'s*---*because shoes come by
devilish like that will burn your feet." which means that there will be
consequences of stealing no matter what which is also caring as it is a
life-lesson. This strengthens my claim as Mrs. Jones gave him
responsibility and made him happy by giving him ten dollars to buy shoes
which is caring and thus she cared for him. She also gave responsibility
to Roger which is also caring and therefore, she cared for him. In both
ways, Mrs. Jones cared for Roger thus hardening my claim. A final piece
of evidence is in page 6, lines 142-147 where the book cites, "The woman
did not ask the boy anything about where he lived, or his folks, or
anything else that would embarrass him. Instead, as they ate, she told
him about her job in a hotel beauty-shop that stayed open late, what the
work was like, and how all kinds of women came in and out, blondes,
red-heads, and Spanish." In this piece of text, Mrs. Jones did not
embarrass Roger by not asking personal questions which is caring as a
caretaker shouldn\'t embarrass their young which could\'ve taught Roger
a lesson about being kind and not embarrassing guests by asking
questions that make them feel uneasy if it would rub off on Roger which
is also caring as a caretaker should teach their young about proper
manners. Mrs. Jones also told him about herself which adds to that
lesson in way as she is teaching him about guest keeping and hoping that
that her "secret" lesson" would work which is also caring and teaching
him proper manners and can be interpreted to support my claim. This is
relevant as Mrs. Jones secretly taught Roger a lesson about what not to
do when having guests over which teaches him about proper manners and
she didn\'t embarrass him which is kind and both are caring and thus she
cared for him. She also secretly taught a lesson about what to do when a
guest is over which is caring and it also taught him about proper
manners and therefore she cared for him. All three of these ways show
that Mrs. Jones cared for Roger supports my claim where it says that
Mrs. Jones cared for Roger. Without anything else to add, let us move on
to the third set of evidence which is the best evidence out of all of
the evidence presented. My third set of evidence focuses on the part of
my claim that states the Mrs. Jones showed signs of her wanting to care
for Roger as he didn\'t have anyone to care for him as opposed to
possible ways she would've cared for Roger which is different as shows
that she wants to care for him. One piece of evidence is on page 3,
lines 56-58 where Mrs. Jones says, "\'When I get through with you, sir,
you are going to remember Mrs, Luella Bates Washington Jones.\'" In this
quote, Mrs. Jones said that she was going to get through with Roger
while in the context of dragging him down a street. When she said this,
she meant that she was going to set him straight which means she was
going to fix something about Roger. This something was that Roger
didn\'t have anyone who would care for him and she was going to set it
straight. She also told Roger her name which gives a hint that they were
going to know each other and be together for a while. This relates to my
claim as by telling him that she was going to set him straight, it shows
that she wanted to care for him to straight him from his improper or no
care at all. Mrs. Jones told him her name which means that they were
going to be together for a while and when you combined the two things
just explained, you could only assume that she wanted to care for him.
This goes back to my claim about how Mrs. Jones took Roger home as she
wanted to care for him and thus strengthens my claim. Another piece of
evidence is in page 3, lines 45-46 where Mrs. Jones says, "\'You ought
to be my son. I would teach you right from wrong.\'" What happens here
is that Mrs. Jones said that Roger should be her son which indicates
that she was going to treat Roger like a son. Mrs. Jones also told him
that she would teach him right from wrong which shows that she would
teach him what his caretakers wrongly taught him such as stealing. This
entire piece of writing is clearly hinting at something which is that
Mrs. Jones wanted to care for Roger. This is relevant to my claim as she
told Roger that she was going to treat him like a son which shows that
she wanted to care for him as that is what mothers do to their sons. She
also told him that she was going to teach him right from wrong which
meant that she was going to correct what his caretakers taught him that
would make him think stealing was okay and that clearly shows that she
wanted to care for him. When you combined them, it is even more clear
that Mrs. Jones wanted to care for Roger and therefore, strengthening my
statement. My third piece of evidence is in page 3. lines 53-56 where
Mrs. Jones says, "\'If you think that that contact is not going to last
awhile, you got another thought coming.\'" This was said in the context
in which Mrs. Jones asked Roger if she was bothering him in which he
responded no in the context of her dragging him to her home after he
tried to steal her pocketbook which is direct contact. Then Mrs. Jones
told him that their contact was going to last awhile which again means
that they were going to be together and get to know each other by being
in contact. From saying that, she also taught him that contact which was
in this case, direct contact, no matter what, lasts for while which is a
lesson that she taught. She also said this statement after she said that
he was ought to be her son. This relates to my claim as what Mrs. Jones
meant by contact she meant that they were going to be together for
awhile which could shows that she wanted to care for Roger during that
time period. Mrs. Jones also taught Roger a lesson about direct contact
by teaching that it lasts for a while no matter what which is caring.
She also said this after she said that Roger was ought to be his son and
when combined, you could only assume that she wanted to care for Roger.
This goes back to my claim where it said that Mrs. Jones wanted to care
for Roger and because of that, it supports my claim. My final piece of
evidence is in page 3, lines 46-47 where Mrs. Jones says, "\'Least I can
do right now is to wash your face. Are you hungry?\'" As you can see,
Mrs. Jones said that she was going to wash his face which is straight
forward. She also asked him if he was hungry which mean that she was
going to feed him also which is also straight forward. These two
sentences also told Roger that she wasn\'t going to hurt him as she was
going to do friendly things instead. This relates back to my claim as
she said that she was going to wash his face which shows that Mrs. Jones
wanted to care for Roger. She also hinted that she was going to feed him
which also shows that Mrs. Jones wanted to care for Roger. Roger also
got the message that she wasn\'t going to hurt him which doesn\'t
exactly show that she wanted to care for him the sentences themselves do
that. When combined, it is clear that Mrs. Jones wanted to care for
Roger and its relates back to my claim as it says just that thus helping
my claim. With out further evidence to present for this part of my
claim, let us move on to the conclusion. After all of the evidence I
have presented, we have come to the conclusion where I will be
summarizing all of the evidence I have presented. My first set of
evidence which was ranked second in terms of supporting my claim mainly
showed that Roger didn\'t have anyone to care for him. It used various
quotes with the first one being, "\'If I turn you loose, will you run?\'
asked the woman. \'Yes ma\'m,\' said the boy. \'Then I won\'t turn you
loose,\' said the woman. She did not release him. \'I'm very sorry,
lady, I'm sorry,\' whispered the boy. Um-hum! And your face is dirty. I
got a great mind to wash it for you. Ain\'t you got nobody home to tell
you to wash your face?\' \'No\'m,\' said the boy." in page 2, lines
29-39 which shows that he doesn\'t have anyone there for him or to teach
or tell him to wash his face or do it for him or tell him what to say in
certain situations and thus nobody to care for him as they didn\'t care
for him properly which is worse. The second one is, "Here I am trying to
get home to cook me a bite and you snatch my pocketbook. Maybe, you
ain\'t been to your supper either, late as it be. Have you?\' \'There\'s
nobody home at my house\', said the boy" in page 4, lines 85-90 which
shows that yet again that there is nobody there for him or to feed him
and thus nobody to care for him. The third one is, "\'I believe you\'re
hungry - or been hungry - to snatch my notebook.\'" "\'I wanted a pair
of blue suede shoes,\' said the boy," in page 4, lines 91 to 95 which
shows that his caretaker couldn\'t properly satisfy his personal needs
as he didn\'t already have them and teach him not to steal and thus,
nobody to care for him. The final piece of evidence in the set was, "He
looked as if he were fourteen or fifteen, frail and willow-wild, in
tennis shoes and blue jeans." in page 3, lines 43-44 which shows that
his caretakers didn\'t raise him properly as he is frail and weak and
not fit at all and because he is willow-wild or just wild which is the
equivalent of not caring for him at all and thus nobody to care for him.
My second set of evidence was focused on the possible ways in which Mrs.
Jones was perhaps caring for Roger which strengthens the part of my
claim that states that Mrs. Jones cared for Roger and was ranked last in
terms of supporting my claim with them being the following with the
first evidence being,"\'Then, Roger, you go to that sink and wash your
face,\' said the woman, whereupon she turned him loose---at last. Roger
looked at the door---looked at the woman---looked at the door---and went
to the sink." in page 4, lines 74-79 which shows that Mrs. Jones cared
for Roger by telling him to wash his face thus caring for him by caring
about his personal hygiene and teaching him to do such things passively
and be obedient to others in the future and thus caring for him and
supporting my claim. The second one was, "She heated some lima beans,
made the cocoa, and set the table." in page 6, lines 140-141 which is
caring as Mrs. Jones fed him and taught him to be more responsible by
teaching him how to prepare food in the future by passively teaching him
it by just doing it and therefore caring for him and strengthening my
claim. The third one was, "\'Now, here, take this ten dollars and buy
yourself some blue suede shoes. And next time, do not make the mistake
of latching onto my pocketbook nor nobody else\'s*---*because shoes come
by devilish like that will burn your feet.\'" in page 7, lines 152-156
in which she gave him ten dollars to buy shoes which gave him more
responsibility and satisfied his personal needs to buy shoes and she
also taught him a lesson about stealing which is that stealing will
always have consequences which is caring and thus supports my claim. The
final piece of evidence for this set was, "The woman did not ask the boy
anything about where he lived, or his folks, or anything else that would
embarrass him. Instead, as they ate, she told him about her job in a
hotel beauty-shop that stayed open late, what the work was like, and how
all kinds of women came in and out, blondes, red-heads, and Spanish." in
page 6, lines 142-147 in which Mrs. Jones doesn\'t embarrass Roger at
the chance by asking personal questions, she also taught him not to
embarrass his guests by passively teaching him it and even more, by
telling him the story, she also passively taught him what to do when a
guest is over which taught him about proper manners which is caring and
because of that, its helps my claim. My third and last piece of evidence
is focused on the part of my claim that states that Mrs. Jones wanted to
care for Roger which is not actually caring for him but showing signs of
it and it was ranked first out of all three in terms of supporting my
claim and the first evidence is, "\'When I get through with you, sir,
you are going to remember Mrs, Luella Bates Washington Jones.\'" in page
3, lines 56-58 where Mrs. Jones pretty much said that she was going to
set him straight which meant that she was going to correct his improper
care and she also mentioned her name which meant they were going to be
together for awhile and when combined, it shows that she wanted to care
for Roger and thus, supporting my claim. The second one was, "\'You
ought to be my son. I would teach you right from wrong.\'" in page 3,
lines 45-46 in which Mrs. Jones says that Roger should be her son and
would treat him as such and that she would teach him right from wrong by
correcting what his caretakers taught him that would make him think
things such as stealing is okay which shows that Mrs. Jones wanted to
care for Roger and therefore, strengthens my claim. The third piece of
evidence was,"\'If you think that that contact is not going to last
awhile, you got another thought coming.\'" in page3, lines 53-56 where
Mrs. Jones meant by contact that they were going to be together for
awhile and get to know each other by being in contact and she also
taught him a lesson about direct contact which is that it lasts since
this was said after Mrs. Jones said that Roger was ought to be her son,
it combines to show that Mrs. Jones wanted to care for Roger, and
because of that, it supports my claim. The final piece of evidence
was,"\'Least I can do right now is to wash your face. Are you hungry?\'"
in page 3, lines 46-47 in which Mrs. Jones announced to Roger that she
was going to wash his face, hinted at feeding him, and silently told
Roger that Mrs. Jones wasn\'t going to hurt him which all show that Mrs.
Jones wanted to care for Roger and due to that, it helps my claim. All
of the evidence presented support my claim which is that Mrs. Jones
brought Roger home as she wanted to care for him which she did as Roger
didn\'t have anyone to care for him all of which my evidence supported
in their own, unique way. That was my interpretive response and answer
in response to the question, "Why do you think Mrs. Jones takes Roger
home?" which was asked about the short story, "Thank You
Ma\'m" written by Langston Hughes.
