---
layout: post
title:  baseball
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2013
---
In the memoir "Baseball", Lionel G. García recalls the days when he and
the kids in his neighborhood played their own special sort of baseball.
What I think the memoir says about children\'s play is that it takes
traditional games and sports and enhances certain aspects of them with
the children's imagination in order to make it more fun and interesting. <!--more-->
There are several lines in the memoir that support my argument as to
what the memoir says about children\'s play, with one being in the
explanation of one of the rules of the version of baseball that the
children in the memoir had invented: "But the second, more interesting
option allowed the fielder, ball in hand, to take off running after the
batter. When close enough, the fielder would throw the ball at the
batter." This line shows one of the methods by which the batter can get
"out", or not make it back to the home base, which in traditional
baseball is done by having a fielder with the baseball reach a base
ahead of or behind the batter, given that the batter is not already on a
base or has an available base behind him. However, in the children\'s
version of the game, the children added an additional method in which a
fielder chases and throws the baseball at the batter, which the children
thought as fun and interesting. Of course, this shows that the running
and chasing aspect of baseball is appealing to the children, and as a
result, the children enhance this aspect of baseball, by using their
imagination and creating a new game rule, for the purpose of maximizing
the joy and interest they get out of this aspect. Thus, children\'s
play, such as the version of baseball in the story, enhances certain
aspects of traditional sports and games with the imagination of
children. Another line, in the same context of the memoir describing the
special rules of the children\'s version of baseball, is in the
following: "To complicate matters, on the way to home plate, the batter
had the chance of running anywhere possible to avoid getting hit \[by
the baseball possessed by the fielder\]." Here it is shown for the
purpose of adding fun and interest to baseball, the children allowed the
batter to run anywhere, even outside of the area in which the game is
played, to evade the baseball that may be thrown by a pursuing fielder
to get him out. In traditional baseball, there are baselines along which
the batter has to run on to get from base to base, but to enhance the
game, the children had increased the fun and interest in the running and
chasing aspect of the game by allowing the batter to run anywhere
without the limitations of baselines. Therefore, this line from the
memoir presents how the children play and modify baseball using their
imagination to make the game more fun, and supports my argument. A third
line that supports my argument is when Father Zavala, a priest of the
local community, talks about the version of baseball invented by the
children : "In what enormous stadium would it \[the children\'s
adaptation of baseball\] be played to allow such freedom over such an
expanse of ground?" In this line, the memoir shows that Father Zavala ,
who has never seen traditional baseball be played ( shown in the line:
"It was the only kind \[the children\'s kind\] of baseball game Father
Zavala had ever seen"), was amazed by how the version of baseball that
the children played had no boundaries of the playing field and thus
could be played across the streets of the town of their community, which
covers a huge "expanse of ground." This nonexistent boundary of the
children\'s version of baseball and the freedom to run and chase others
was the work and invention of the children\'s imagination. Freedom of
the territory of the field in the children\'s version of baseball
enhanced an aspect of traditional baseball by having no boundaries in
the game. As a result, the children who enjoy mostly this aspect of
baseball, have their fun magnified. This falls under what my arguments
says about children\'s play in children\'s imagination enhancing certain
aspects of a game or sport in order to make the game or sport more
enjoyable by children, which supports my argument. Moving on, a fourth
and penultimate line that supports my argument is located in the
memoir\'s introduction to the children playing their version of
baseball: "We love to play baseball. We would take the old mesquite
stick and the old ball across the street to the parochial grounds to
play a game." This excerpt shows that the children in the memoir enjoy
playing their version of baseball despite having to use a crude and
makeshift baseball bat, baseball, and other equipment that generally
revolves around hitting, throwing, and catching the ball, which
indicates that such aspects of baseball do not appeal to the children in
the memoir due to their love for baseball but use of such poor
equipment. However, there is an aspect of baseball that does appeal to
them since the children love baseball, and by inferring from what is
shown in the other lines presented, the children like the running and
chasing aspect of baseball. Therefore, the children make up for their
crude equipment and the hampered aspects of baseball that includes
hitting, catching, and throwing the baseball by enhancing the other
aspect of baseball that they get the most fun and interest with, as seen
from previous lines, with addition rules and freedoms created by their
imagination, which is the essence of children\'s play, as defined by my
argument. Hence, this line, which shows that the children play baseball
with their own modifications generated by their imaginations in order to
enhance the aspect of traditional baseball that they enjoy the most,
supports my argument. Finally, in the observation and conclusion of what
adults, who have seen traditional baseball be played, see in and think
of the children\'s version of baseball that they like to play, a line
summarizes this part of the memoir: "Once when, he \[Uncle Adolfo, a
professional baseball player\] returned for a visit, he saw us playing
from across the street and walked over to ask us what we were doing. \'
Playing baseball, \' we answered as though we thought he should know
better. \' What a waste of a good ball, \' he said, marveling at our
ignorance." This line tells that some adults, such as Uncle Adolfo, a
professional baseball player, who know about, recognize, and understand
traditional baseball do not approve of the modifications the children
had made that made baseball more fun and interesting to them. Instead,
such adults would rather stick to the accepted rules. This constitutes
the difference between adults\' play, which is more traditional and
standardized, and children\'s play, which is more creative and uses
imagination. In this case, children\'s play is looked down upon by
adults due to its irregularities and rules that seem absurd to them but
are fun and interesting to the children, which strengthens my argument
in that it shows how children\'s play uses the imagination of children
to make certain aspects of games and sports more fun. To conclude, what
the memoir "Baseball", by Lionel G. García, says about children\'s play
is that children\'s play takes traditional games and sports and enhances
certain aspects of them with the imagination of children in order to
make it more fun and interesting for children.
