---
layout: post
title: resume
date:   2018-11-27 16:43:39 -0500
category: 2014
---
Alex Rankine

Address: 2101 Shoreline Dr. Apt. 151 Alameda CA
<!--more--> 
Contact Info \-- Phone: (510) -- 749 -8224 \| Email:
alexranks\@gmail.com(mailto:alexranks@gmail.com)

**Education:**

*2011 -- Present* Will C. Wood Middle School, Alameda, CA

-   Cumulative Grade Point Average: 4.0

-   Emphasis on History

-   Expected date of graduation: June 2014

*2005 -- 2011* Donald Lum Elementary School, Alameda, CA

-   Date of graduation: June 2011

**Academic Experience:**

*2011 -- Present* **Historian**, Will C. Wood Middle
School, Alameda, CA

-   Performed as King Louis XIV of France in a press conference and
    > answered questions about government policy asked by reporters to
    > display the thoughts and ideals of absolute rulers.

-   Designed a board game revolving around conquest and resource
    > management to display Jared Diamond\'s theory of guns, germs, and
    > steel.

-   Crafted a model of an Egyptian loom to display how ancient Egyptians
    > produced their linen.

*2011 -- Present* **Scientist**, Will C. Wood Middle
School, Alameda, CA

-   Analyzed the job of computer and information research scientists and
    > how they utilize computer programming to show the usefulness and
    > convenience programming provides in most tasks.

-   Illustrated the life cycle, anatomy, and function of birds in a
    > presentation to contribute to the learning of different families
    > and phylums of the animal kingdom.

-   Constructed a slide show about taiga forests to understand forests\'
    > different ecosystems, environment, and life.

*2011 -- Present* **Mathematician**, Will C. Wood Middle
School, Alameda, CA

-   Utilized proofs and various types of reasoning in solving
    > mathematical problems to see logic as a part of mathematics.

-   Calculated the mixing of substances with great precision to achieve
    > desired concentration of the substances in the solution.

-   Compiled knowledge of slopes in graphs to apply in constructing and
    > analyzing graphs

**Activities:**

*2010 -- Present* **Musician**, Independent, Alameda, CA

-   Formulated knowledge of musical theory and history to read music
    > with deeper understanding.

-   Examined the design and structure of a woodwind and how it produces
    > different tones to view instruments from an engineer\'s
    > perspective.

-   Performed in various recitals and a choir to bequeath the gift of
    > music to people.

*2012 -- Present* **Programmer**, Independent, Alameda, CA

-   Grasped basic and advanced concepts in several computer languages to
    > read and write corresponding language code efficiently.

-   Studied computer logic and processing to deepen knowledge of
    > computers and programming.

-   Programmed basic applications with computer languages to discover
    > utility in programming.
